# DP-203: Azure Data Engineer

This repository contains instructions and assets for hands-on exercises in the Microsoft Official Courseware to support the [Microsoft Certified: Azure Data Engineer Associate](https://learn.microsoft.com/certifications/azure-data-engineer/) certification. The exercises are designed to complement the associated training modules on [Microsoft Learn](https://learn.microsoft.com/training), and a <u>subset</u> of these exercises comprises the hands-on labs in the official [DP-203T00: Data Engineering on Microsoft Azure](https://learn.microsoft.com/training/courses/dp-203t00) instructor-led training course.

## Exercise design principles

The exercises in the repo are designed to support <u>both</u> self-paced learners on Microsoft Learn, and students in official instructor-led training deliveries. In most cases, self-paced learners must provide their own cloud subscription, while students attending official instructor-led courses are typically provided with subscriptions they can use to complete each individual exercise that is included in the course. Note that Microsoft does not support instructor-led deliveries of the exercises in this repo in environments other than those provided by Microsoft authorized lab hosters (ALHs).

The exercises are designed to stand alone, independently of one another. Most labs begin with instructions to clone the repo and run an exercise-specific setup script to prepare the environment, which can take anywhere between 2 and 20 minutes depending on the resources required in the exercise. While this can result in a repetitive experience that requires some patience as the setup script runs, it is necessary to minimize cloud service costs (for both self-paced learners and hosted lab environments in instructor-led deliveries), and to support self-paced learners choosing their own path through the associated training modules on Microsoft Learn.

The numbering of the exercises in this repo indicates a suggested logical sequence that reflects the flow of modules in the official learning paths and the instructor-led materials. The numbers do <u>not</u> indicate the corresponding slide deck or "lab" in an instructor-led course.

Some of the exercises are suggested as instructor demo's in classroom deliveries. Trainers can follow these suggestions or demonstrate *any* of the exercises at their discretion. Note however that hosted lab profiles and cloud subscriptions may not be provided for exercises that are not included as student labs in courses; and the exercise-specific hosted subscriptions that *are* provided in lab profiles may have policies applied that prevent completion of other exercises. Trainers are advised to test available lab profiles and to use their own cloud subscriptions for demonstrations if necessary.

## Contributing to this repo

Microsoft Certified Trainers (MCTs) are welcome to submit issues and PRs related to content or assets in this repo, subject to the guidance in the [GitHub User Guide for MCTs](https://microsoftlearning.github.io/MCT-User-Guide/). Trainers should bear in mind that the repo is designed to support self-paced learners on Microsoft Learn as well as students in instructor-led courses, and that some of the exercises in the repo are not included in the hosted lab profiles for classroom delivery. Issues relating to configuration or performance of lab environments provided by ALHs are not supported here - contact your ALH if you experience problems related to the hosted lab environment.
